Update Staking Docs - Bags-list (#3272)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-nominator.md

occur often, so you should almost always see only a single active nomination per era. See the
[section on Phragmén optimization](learn-phragmen.md#optimizations) for more details.

### Bags-list

Nominating accounts are placed in a semi-sorted list called bags-list. This sorting functionality is
extremely important for the
[long-term improvements](https://gist.github.com/kianenigma/aa835946455b9a3f167821b9d05ba376) of the
staking/election system. Bags-list allows up to 50,000 nominators to set their _intention_ to

> nominate, of which, the stake of the top 22,500 nominators is considered for elections that

Reviewer: should we use the term "electing" and reference to where it is explained?

Reviewer 2: Will do

> nominate, of which, the stake of the top 22,500 nominators is considered for elections that

Reviewer: Don't we now have variables for `50k` and `22,5k`?

for scalability reasons the system will not automatically self-adjust.

:::caution `bagsList.putInFrontOf` and `bagsList.rebag` extrinsics

The nominator accounts in a bag are sorted based on their insertion order, not by their nomination
stake. `bagsList.putInFrontOf` extrinsic can be issued to move up in the bag, which might be very
useful for the accounts in the last bag eligible for receiving staking rewards. Also, balance
changes due to staking rewards or slashing do not automatically re-bag the account. Whenever
applicable, Polkadot JS Apps UI prompts the nominator account to rebag or move-up and the
instructions are available in this
[support article](https://support.polkadot.network/support/solutions/articles/65000181018-i-have-more-than-the-minimum-bonded-but-i-m-not-getting-rewards).

:::

To demonstrate how bags-list works, let's imagine a simple bag system with 7 accounts and 3 bags:

Alice: 10 DOT, Bob: 11 DOT, Charlie: 15 DOT, Dave: 20 DOT, Eve: 100 DOT, Frank 1000 DOT, Georgina:
2000 DOT

Bag1: Max 2000, Min 1000 - Frank, Georgina

Bag2: Max 1000, Min 20 - Eve, Dave

Bag3: Max 20, Min 10 - Alice, Bob, Charlie

> The bags are iterated based on _insertion_ order, not _amount at stake_. So if only five nominating

Reviewer: misleading: bags are ordered and are iterated from high to low, WITHIN a bag we use insertion order.

Reviewer 2: Will clarify

occur often, so you should almost always see only a single active nomination per era. See the
[section on Phragmén optimization](learn-phragmen.md#optimizations) for more details.

### Bags-list

Nominating accounts are placed in a semi-sorted list called bags-list. This sorting functionality is extremely 
important for the [long-term improvements](https://gist.github.com/kianenigma/aa835946455b9a3f167821b9d05ba376) 

> of the staking/election system. Bags-list allows up to 50,000 nominators to set their *intention* to nominate, 

Reviewer: This is only the case with the "current parameters". In principle bags-list can store an infinite number of nodes. We should emphasize: 

'in the current config, we keep 50k in bags list and 22,5k come out as the electing'

> of which, the stake of the top 22,500 nominators is applied to the validators in the active set. The bags-list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of which, the stake of the top 22,500 nominators is considered for elections that eventually determine the active validators. The bags-list
```

can be previewed on [Polkadot JS Apps > Network > Staking > Bags > All Bags](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/staking/bags).

![Bags list](../assets/staking/bags-list.png)

:::info Minimum DOT required to earn staking rewards

Minimum DOT required to submit intent to nominate is 10 DOT, but the minimum active nomination required to earn
staking rewards is dynamic and may be much higher, which can be viewed on [Polkadot JS Apps > Network > Staking > Targets page](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/staking/targets).

:::

![Minimum Active Nomination](../assets/staking/min-active-nomination.png)

Bonding additional tokens or unbonding the staked tokens will automatically place the nominating account in the 
appropriate bag. While the system tries its best to ensure nominators are always represented in the correct bag, 
certain changes in bonded funds (e.g. a slash in the negative direction, or rewards in the positive direction) can 

> cause an account to be in the wrong bag, and for operational safety reasons the system will not automatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cause an account to be in the wrong bag, and for scalability reasons the system will not automatically
```

self-adjust.

:::caution `bagsList.putInFrontOf` and `bagsList.rebag` extrinsics

The nominator accounts in a bag are sorted based on their insertion order, not by their nomination stake. 
`bagsList.putInFrontOf` extrinsic can be issued to move up in the bag, which might be very useful for the 

> accounts in the last bag eligible for receiving staking rewards. Also, balance changes due to staking rewards or 

Reviewer: You talk about the last bag here, which is an important concept, but you have not explained what is, and why it matters. In other words, how the bags are used to iterate over all nominator intentions is missing. I would include this explanation + some graphics about it beforehand as well. Example of what I have in mind is the "bags-list in depth" here: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RMoTpvXyoudMeVTRJ-a6p9XDpdCfUovRapJINZJB4hI/edit#

Reviewer 2: Noted

Reviewer: Okay I see some explanation along those lines further below, but I think it is better to make it more comprehensive and move it to the top.

slashing do not automatically re-bag the account. Whenever applicable, Polkadot JS Apps UI prompts the nominator account to rebag or move-up and the instructions are available in this [support article](https://support.polkadot.network/support/solutions/articles/65000181018-i-have-more-than-the-minimum-bonded-but-i-m-not-getting-rewards).

:::

To demonstrate how bags-list works, let's imagine a simple bag system with 7 accounts and 3 bags:

Alice: 10 DOT, Bob: 11 DOT, Charlie: 15 DOT, Dave: 20 DOT, Eve: 100 DOT, Frank 1000 DOT, Georgina: 2000 DOT

Bag1: Max 2000, Min 1000 - Frank, Georgina

Bag2: Max 1000, Min 20 - Eve, Dave

Bag3: Max 20, Min 10 - Alice, Bob, Charlie

> On a per-bag basis, rewards are given based on _insertion_ order, not _amount at stake_. So if only five nominating 

Reviewer: _rewards_ is not really a relate term here. I think what you are trying to say is that "iteration" is based on insertion order, so when we want to _iterate_ the bags-list to go from nomination intentions to the electing subset, then the insertion order matters within a bag.

accounts can get rewards, it will be Frank, Georgina, Eve, Dave, Alice. Even though Alice has only 10 DOT, she is first
in line in Bag3.

Charlie can put himself in front (move up in the bag) using the , since he has 15 DOT (more than Alice does at 10).
Now if nothing changes for the next era, Frank, Georgina, Eve, Dave, and Charlie will get rewards. Bag3 now has: 

> Charlie, Alice, Bob. The `bagsList.putInFrontOf` extrinsic can be issued through Polkadot JS Apps UI by clicking on 

Reviewer: An example of rebag will also be great, as noted above.
